# Reflections on Experiences at the UW Coding Bootcamp

This reflection ends the journey of roughly six hectic months of intensive training to become a full stack web developer.  From this gruelling program I've learned to code in several languages including HTML, CSS, JavaScript, NodeJS, SQL. MongoDB, and others.  The technologies I've learned to work with include React, Bootstrap, HandleBars, Git, Express, jQuery, and several more.  To me, what I've learned in this bootcamp breaks down into hard skills and soft skills.  The hard skills that I've learned would include the languages and technologies themselves.  The soft skills would include remote collaboration and presenting very technical concepts at a high level.

Through this program I've put together an extensive portfolio of projects featuring some or all of the technologies listed above.  These projects were integral in helping me learn web development as extensively as I have.  The bootcamp has also enabled me to network in a time where that is becoming very difficult.

As a customer-facing professional in the technology industry, my customers are best served when they can talk to someone who speaks enough of the same technical language as they do.  For the most part my conversations with customers tend to be high-level, and not very "down into the weeds" from a technical standpoint.  With that said, from having expanded my technical acumen through this course, I've increased my confidence in talking about high-level concepts with customers.  So much of sales and customer service involves answering the question of "How do I explain this extremely complex topic to a five-year-old?"  To me it is difficult to answer this question without at least some in-depth knowledge of what I'm actually talking about.  The pandemic has greatly decreased the amount of business that is done in-person.  This course has given me the opportunity to hone my Zoom presentation skills as well.

Looking back to the beginning of the course, I've came a long way.  When I first started I vaguely understood high-level technical concepts enough to survive in the industry that I work in.  Now I feel confident enough to thrive.  I knew a few things about writing code before undertaking the bootcamp, but still can't believe that as I write this I'm a full stack web developer!

My success path forward will entail continuing to sharpen these newly-acquired technical skills through whatever resources I can find.  I'd like to further my skills with React especially, as well as learn about engines such as Phaser.  I will also need to keep adjusting my way of working with customers remotely through Zoom.  My goals are simple:  Stay employed, stay employable, and keep moving forward.  With the fast pace of the technology industry, it is vital for workers to stay relevant; with the current state of the economy, it is also vital for workers to stay one step ahead of what could happen work-wise.  Between having (and further improving) a good understanding of both the technical and business aspects of my industry, I believe that I'll be in an excellent position to continuously build an excellent career.
